---
layout: post
title: Can I put KaiOS on other devices?
---
KaiOS is considered to be a proprietary product, which means only KaiOS Technologies, its shareholders and its business partners have access to the codebase, and can build anything on top of it. It's their choice for the business model and that [something we cannot alter]. However, since KaiOS is derived from Firefox OS, parts of the operating system such as Boot2Gecko are under [Mozilla Public Licence 2.0], and KaiOS Technologies has to open-source the original work by the Mozilla team. The companies are not required to release their work on top of the open-sourced modules, and opted not to do so.

Generously, since the KaiOS Technologies and Mozilla partnership, employees who formerly worked on B2G and Firefox OS has been working on [the publicly available fork] and modernising it by upgrading the Gecko engine and integrating a selection of current web technologies. But much of the operating system, like the Gaia apps, is still missing, making it almost impossible to build or port KaiOS.

To build KaiOS would also need device drivers (HALs, or referred to as Gonk), because there's no point of operating systems if they cannot communicate with the hardware. Phone manufacturers are obliged to release the Linux kernel under [the GNU GPLv2], and [they sometimes do] &#x2014; along with the Gonk layer, which makes things like postmarketOS possible. Other times, they do not or are not able to (shout out to MediaTek), making things tricky if the device is too different from others that have been open-sourced.

So, the short answer is: we don't have enough publicly available components to build a fully functional KaiOS image file. But you may ask, surely we can make an generic image file that we can flash on every device, [something like this], right?

ROMs for ARM devices don't work the same way as ISOs for desktop operating systems, because configurations are way too vary between devices (quad-core, octa-core, Cortex-A7 etc.) Often, phone manufacturers will work with KaiOS to get the source code, tweak it to optimise the OS on their phones, build the code themselves, then conduct some QA testing. The entire process costs a ton of money (which explains there aren't even any updates for already released phones.) Even Apple has to build IPSWs for each of their supported devices, but it benefits from having control over both the OS and the hardware.

KaiOS doesn't have some sort of generic ROMs that you can flash to get your phone half-baked. The concept was only introduced with Project Treble in 2017 and Project Mainline in 2019 on Android, and works by separating the operating system code from driver code of manufacturers. And even then [they don't work so well].

LineageOS and custom Android-based OSes are different, since Android is mostly open-sourced, and phone manufacturers chosen by the community either actually release kernel source code as required by GPL/LGPL licences, or the phone is similar to those that have been open-sourced. This, plus with a bit of work, make custom Android ROMs possible.

[something we cannot alter]: https://www.kaiostech.com/faq/can-i-access-the-source-code/
[Mozilla Public Licence 2.0]: https://github.com/kaiostech/gecko-b2g/blob/gonk/toolkit/content/license.html
[the publicly available fork]: https://github.com/kaiostech/gecko-b2g
[the GNU GPLv2]: https://docs.kernel.org/process/license-rules.html
[they sometimes do]: https://github.com/bmndc/nokia-leo/tree/leo-v20
[something like this]: https://developer.android.com/topic/generic-system-image
[they don't work so well]: https://xdaforums.com/t/common-gsi-issues-and-fixes.4589327/